GRADUATE THESIS/DISSERTATION FORMAT TEMPLATE
national university of sciences and technology
islamabad
Version: ms1.0; Dated: 27Apr 2023

 
Template of Graduate Thesis/Dissertation is an “essential kit” to format thesis in Microsoft Word. This template has Word’s auto-generate capability and facilitate incorporation of automatic List of Tables, List of Figures and Table of Contents, and numbering of equations.

Thesis template and guidelines assists to provide correct formatting of following:
correct page numbering, margins, the front pages format, chapter headings, section headings, and subheading styles set up to level 3.

Furthermore, there are help boxes provided as Blue Text Boxes to explain the formatting. These boxes need to be deleted before the printing of thesis. These boxes can be easily deleted by viewing under View menu and Print Layout to see or delete these Blue text.

It is advised that this template should be used as a starting point to format the thesis, with further assistance can be obtained from Supervisor, Exam cell and Students for proper formatting.







[DELETE THIS PAGE BEFORE BEGINNING]
 
Thesis Title Goes Here Center [Doping Graphene Sheets]
[Times New Roman, Bold, Font Size 16] 

 

By
Student Name
(Registration No: 00000123456)

Department of Materials Engineering
School of Chemical and Materials Engineering
National University of Sciences & Technology (NUST)
Islamabad, Pakistan
(2023) 
Thesis Title Goes Here Center 
[Times New Roman, Bold, Font Size 16, Center]
 
By
Student Name
(Registration No: 00000123456)
A thesis submitted to the National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, 
in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of
Master of Science in
Materials Engineering
Supervisor: Dr. 
Co Supervisor (if any): Dr. 

School of Chemical and Materials Engineering
National University of Sciences & Technology (NUST)
Islamabad, Pakistan
(2023) 
THESIS ACCEPTANCE CERTIFICATE
Certified that final copy of MS Thesis written by Mr / Ms					 (Registration No. 		), of 			 (School/College/Institute) has been vetted by undersigned, found complete in all respects as per NUST Statutes/ Regulations/ Masters Policy, is free of plagiarism, errors, and mistakes and is accepted as partial fulfillment for award of Masters degree. It is further certified that necessary amendments as point out by GEC members and evaluators of the scholar have also been incorporated in the said thesis.

Signature: 						
Name of Supervisor 					
Date:							

Signature (HOD): 					
Date: 							

Signature (Dean/ Principal) 				
Date: 							 
TH - 4 Form Goes Here 
AUTHOR’S DECLARATION
I 					 hereby state that my MS thesis titled “																								” is my own work and has not been submitted previously by me for taking any degree from National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad or anywhere else in the country/ world.
At any time if my statement is found to be incorrect even after I graduate, the university has the right to withdraw my MS degree.

Name of Student:					
Date: 							 
DEDICATION
Center [Times New Roman, Bold, Font Size 14]
Start typing the dedication here.  







 
aCKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Start typing the acknowledgment here.  







 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
aCKNOWLEDGEMENTS	viii
TABLE OF CONTENTS	ix
LIST OF TABLES	x
LIST OF FIGURES	xi
LIST OF SYMBOLS, ABBREVIATIONS and acronyms	xii
aBSTRACT	xiii
chapter 1:	Introduction	1
1.1	How to Use This Template [This is a First-Level Subheading]	1
1.1.1	This is a Second-Level Subheading	1
1.1.2	Inserting and Numbering Equations	1
1.1.3	Inserting, Numbering, and Referencing Figures	2
1.1.4	Inserting, Numbering, and Referencing Tables	3
1.1.5	Things to be Careful of	4
CHAPTER 2: Setting up a new chapter	6
2.1	Moving to a New Chapter	6
2.1.1	How to Insert a Page Break	6
SUMMARY of Research work	7
Chapter 3: CONCLUSIONS and FUTURE RECOMMENDATION	8
REFERENCES	9
APPENDIX A: DESCRIPTION OF DEFAULT SUBHEADING SCHEME	10
A.1	First-Level Subheading	10
A.1.1	Second-Level Subheadings	10
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS	12


   
LIST OF TABLES
Page No.
Table 1.1: Example of a table	3

	
		











 
LIST OF FIGURES
Page No.
Figure 1.1: This is a figure.  The “caption” uses the “Caption” theme from the quick styles menu above and is added by right-clicking the figure and selecting “Insert Caption...”	2
Figure 1.2: Example of a Figure	3



 
LIST OF SYMBOLS, ABBREVIATIONS and acronyms
A	the letter A
B	the letter B
CGS	Center for Graduate Studies
	













aBSTRACT
[Center, Times New Roman, Bold, Font Size 14]

Start typing the abstract here.  
Keywords:	Summary; format, font, abstract, keywords. (Between 5-10 words only) 





 
chapter 1:	Introduction
This is the first chapter of your manuscript. Often it is titled, 'INTRODUCTION'. Mostly departments’ style guides require that the first chapter is titled 'INTRODUCTION,' but otherwise, you may use any title that suits your purpose. A chapter heading uses the “Heading 1” quick style.  Using this style will allow Word to auto-populate the Table of Contents.
	How to Use This Template [This is a First-Level Subheading]
The first-level subheading utilizes the “Heading 2” quick style.  Using this style will include your first-level subheading in the Table of Contents. This template file has been set up to meet the formatting requirements for theses and dissertations but it does get some of the confusing stuff taken care of: the margins are correct; the table of contents is formatted correctly; the necessary parts are in the right order; the page numbers will appear in the right place and in the right form; it has an acceptable font face and size. Further, Appendix A has a description of the scheme for subheadings you should use if your departmental style guide doesn't specify one.
	This is a Second-Level Subheading
Second-level subheadings utilize Heading 3.  It will be pretty obvious when you need to get rid of some text in this template. For example, this part of the introduction needs to go before you start typing. Easiest way to delete it is to click your cursor in front of the first paragraph, scroll down to the last line in the chapter, hold the SHIFT key down, and click after the last letter. 'SHIFT-clicking' like this selects everything between the two clicks.
	Inserting and Numbering Equations
To insert an equation to be referenced in the text, use the“INSERT”   “Equation”.
Equations are generally described and referenced in the text as is done in the following sentence.  Equation1.1below describes the relationship between the need for a vacation, 〖VAC〗_need, and the available time to take a vacation, t_VAC.  The equation number (1.1) that appears in the table is a sequential field code which allows equation numbers to update automatically by right-clicking highlighted text and selecting “Update Field.”  When adding an equation, select the number and bookmark it under the “INSERT” menu.  When you reference the equation in the text you can insert that bookmark so numbers will automatically update.
	〖VAC〗_need=1/t_VAC 	(1.1)
	Inserting, Numbering, and Referencing Figures
When you insert an image into the text, it will look like Figure 1.1 below.  In the previous sentence, a figure reference is inserted by cross-referencing the figure label and number (INSERT  Cross-reference  Reference Type: Figure  Select figure entry and choose Insert reference to: Only label and number). Figure 1.1 should be written as bold.

 
Figure 1.1: This is a figure.  The “caption” uses the “Caption” theme from the quick styles menu above and is added by right-clicking the figure and selecting “Insert Caption...”
Number the figures by chapter; e.g. Figure 1.1 and Figure 1.2 to indicate the tables belong to Chapter 1. Whereas, Figure 2.1 and Figure 2.2 belong to Chapter 2 and so on. Title for the figure should be placed at below the table. Figure 1.2 shows another example of a figure.

 
Figure 1.2: Example of a Figure
	Inserting, Numbering, and Referencing Tables
After a table is inserted, it must be captioned by selecting the Table and right clicking.  Then click on “Insert caption…” The process is similar for captioning a figure except for the fact that a Table’s caption appears above the table as opposed to the figure caption appearing below a figure.  An example of a table is given in Table 1.1 below.  By inserting the cross-reference to the table, the numbering will be done automatically.
Number the tables by chapter; e.g. Table 1.1 and Table 1.2 to indicate the tables belong to Chapter 1. Whereas, Table 2.1 and Table 2.2 belong to Chapter 2 and so on. Title for the table should be placed above the table. Table 2.1 shows an example of a table. Table 1.1 should be written as bold.
Table 1.1: Example of a table
S. No.	Materials	Length (mm)	Width (mm)
1	Metal	10	6
2	Composites	12	8
	Things to be Careful of
You can make mistake when use the template. For example, when you delete the text on a page, be careful not to accidentally delete the marker, called a 'page break,' between the chapters or different types of pages. The page break marker makes your new chapter begin at the top of a page, no matter what editing you do before them. If you delete a section break, related to a page break, you may lose any formatting that was particular to that page.
	Using Tabs Correctly [This is a Third-Level Subheading]
When you put your headings into the Table of Contents, List of Tables, etc. things should line up pretty well if you use tabs to skip to the next column. If you use spaces to indent or move to the next column, you will have a mess. As spaces in most font families are not fixed in size, things won’t necessarily line up perfectly and you may be required to fix it.  Moreover, when you use spaces rather than tab settings to determine placement of text, any change in words, fonts, or margins requires a great deal of work to reformat.  If you use tab settings to control placement, making such changes becomes trivial. 
Because of the way tabs are set, if a chapter title or section name in the Table of Contents is very short, you may have to put an extra tab character to get the cursor to jump correctly. 
1.1.5.2   Using the Styles
	The page and section heading styles have been set up as named styles in Word.  The page headings in the preliminary pages (e.g. “Table of Contents”), each chapter heading (e.g. “Chapter 1: Introduction”), and the back page headings (e.g. “References”) all use a style called “Heading 1“.  The first-level subheadings (example above) use a style called “Heading 2”.  The second-level subheadings use a style called “Heading 3”. The third-level subheadings use a style called “Heading 4”.  If you accidentally delete any of those headings, go to the Format/Style menu, select the appropriate style and “Apply”.  If you cannot find the style under the list of styles, change the pull-down below it called “List” to “All styles”. 
CHAPTER 2: Setting up a new chapter
	Below are the steps for making a new chapter. This will help to begin a new chapter using this template. This will also help to get the page numbers correctly.
	Moving to a New Chapter
	To move to a new chapter, you must tell Word that you are moving on to a new page. You do this by inserting a page break. A page break forces the next line of text to appear at the top of a fresh page.
	How to Insert a Page Break
	Go to the end of a chapter. That means, put your cursor after the very last character of that chapter.
	Hit Return to move to a new paragraph.
	From the Insert menu, choose Page Break.
	If you are in Outline View (see View menu), you'll see a dotted line across the screen. That marks the end of the previous page. If you are in Page Layout view, you'll just see the top of a new blank page. 
	Begin typing. If you are in Page Layout view, when you get to the end of the first page, your text will skip to the next page. A page number will appear at the bottom center of the new page. The number will be gray, and you can't edit it. That's OK; that is the way it's supposed to look on the screen.




SUMMARY of Research work
This is a 1-2 pager short summary of the total work done for a dissertation. It is larger than the abstract as the abstract alone may not fulfill the purpose of summarizing the entire thesis. It should be included in MS dissertation and for MS theses.
Ideally, the short summary should be composed of 3-5 paragraphs that highlight, in relatively more details, the work carried out during the MS program.
 
 
Chapter 3: CONCLUSIONS and FUTURE RECOMMENDATION
This section contains the concluding statements made at the end of the thesis. It is to restate the main argument. It reminds the reader of the key findings in the thesis, the strengths of your main arguments and reiterates the most important evidence supporting those arguments.

 
REFERENCES
 




 
APPENDIX A: DESCRIPTION OF DEFAULT SUBHEADING SCHEME
	This appendix illustrates the default style of subheadings as chapter-level headings is bold, all upper case, and centered.  Otherwise the font is the same font family and the same size or no more than 2 font points larger (e.g. 14 points vs. 12).
A.1	First-Level Subheading
	The default format for first-level subheadings is left-justified, bold, and upper and lower case (UC/LC) .  Alternatively, you may use plain (not bold), and all upper case (UC).  The former of the two is built into this Word document.  In either case, it should be the same size as the text font.  If you use upper/lower case, capitalize words as you usually would in a title.
	A blank line above the subheading has already been built into this template so it is not necessary to leave another blank line before headings so long as you are using the proscribed heading and subheading styles.  Styles were discussed in Chapter 1 of this document.
A.1.1	Second-Level Subheadings
	Second-level headings are also justified left.  If the first-level subheading was UC/LC and bold, the second-level subheading will be UC/LC and italicized.  That is the style built into this Word document.
	Since a blank line above each subheading was built into this template, it is not necessary to leave another blank line before headings so long as you are use the proscribed subheading style.
A.1.1.1	Third-Level Subheadings
	Third-level subheadings are plain UC/LC text and underlined. Capitalize as with the other subheadings. 
A.1.1.1.1	Fourth-Level Subheadings
	Fourth-level subheadings, if needed, should be plain UC/LC text, flush left. 

 
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS
 

  
